README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/marimo-logotype-thick.svg">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <em>A reactive Python notebook that's reproducible, git-friendly, and deployable as scripts or apps.</em>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.marimo.io" target="_blank"><strong>Docs</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme" target="_blank"><strong>Discord</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://docs.marimo.io/examples/" target="_blank"><strong>Examples</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://marimo.io/gallery/" target="_blank"><strong>Gallery</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@marimo-team/" target="_blank"><strong>YouTube</strong></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>English | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Chinese.md" target="_blank"><b>简体中文</b></a>
  <b> | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Japanese.md" target="_blank"><b>日本語</b></a>
  <b> | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Spanish.md" target="_blank"><b>Español</b></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/marimo/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/marimo?color=%2334D058&label=pypi"/></a>
<a href="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/marimo"><img src="https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/marimo.svg"/></a>
<a href="https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme"><img src="https://shields.io/discord/1059888774789730424" alt="discord" /></a>
<img alt="Pepy Total Downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/marimo?label=pypi%20%7C%20downloads"/>
<img alt="Conda Downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/conda/d/conda-forge/marimo" />
<a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/marimo" /></a>
</p>

**marimo** is a reactive Python notebook: run a cell or interact with a UI
element, and marimo automatically runs dependent cells (or <a href="#expensive-notebooks">marks them as stale</a>), keeping code and outputs
consistent. marimo notebooks are stored as pure Python, executable as scripts,
and deployable as apps.

**Highlights**.

- 🚀 **batteries-included:** replaces `jupyter`, `streamlit`, `jupytext`, `ipywidgets`, `papermill`, and more
- ⚡️ **reactive**: run a cell, and marimo reactively [runs all dependent cells](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/reactivity.html) or <a href="#expensive-notebooks">marks them as stale</a>
- 🖐️ **interactive:** [bind sliders, tables, plots, and more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/interactivity.html) to Python — no callbacks required
- 🔬 **reproducible:** [no hidden state](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/reactivity.html#no-hidden-state), deterministic execution, [built-in package management](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/package_management.html)
- 🏃 **executable:** [execute as a Python script](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/scripts.html), parameterized by CLI args
- 🛜 **shareable**: [deploy as an interactive web app](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/apps.html) or [slides](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/apps.html#slides-layout), [run in the browser via WASM](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/wasm.html)
- 🛢️ **designed for data**: query dataframes and databases [with SQL](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/sql.html), filter and search [dataframes](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/dataframes.html)
- 🐍 **git-friendly:** notebooks are stored as `.py` files
- ⌨️ **a modern editor**: [GitHub Copilot](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/ai_completion.html#github-copilot), [AI assistants](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/ai_completion.html#using-ollama), vim keybindings, variable explorer, and [more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/index.html)

```python
pip install marimo && marimo tutorial intro
```

_Try marimo at [our online playground](https://marimo.app/l/c7h6pz), which runs entirely in the browser!_

_Jump to the [quickstart](#quickstart) for a primer on our CLI._

## A reactive programming environment

marimo guarantees your notebook code, outputs, and program state are consistent. This [solves many problems](https://docs.marimo.io/faq.html#faq-problems) associated with traditional notebooks like Jupyter.

**A reactive programming environment.**
Run a cell and marimo _reacts_ by automatically running the cells that
reference its variables, eliminating the error-prone task of manually
re-running cells. Delete a cell and marimo scrubs its variables from program
memory, eliminating hidden state.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/reactive.gif" width="700px" />

<a name="expensive-notebooks"></a>

**Compatible with expensive notebooks.** marimo lets you [configure the runtime
to be
lazy](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.html),
marking affected cells as stale instead of automatically running them. This
gives you guarantees on program state while preventing accidental execution of
expensive cells.

**Synchronized UI elements.** Interact with [UI
elements](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/interactivity.html) like [sliders](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/slider.html#slider),
[dropdowns](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/dropdown.html), [dataframe
transformers](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/dataframe.html), and [chat
interfaces](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/chat.html), and the cells that
use them are automatically re-run with their latest values.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-ui.gif" width="700px" />

**Interactive dataframes.** [Page through, search, filter, and
sort](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/dataframes.html)
millions of rows blazingly fast, no code required.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-df.gif" width="700px" />

**Performant runtime.** marimo runs only those cells that need to be run by
statically analyzing your code.

**Dynamic markdown and SQL.** Use markdown to tell dynamic stories that depend on
Python data. Or build [SQL](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/sql.html) queries
that depend on Python values and execute them against dataframes, databases,
CSVs, Google Sheets, or anything else using our built-in SQL engine, which
returns the result as a Python dataframe.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-sql-cell.png" width="700px" />

Your notebooks are still pure Python, even if they use markdown or SQL.

**Deterministic execution order.** Notebooks are executed in a deterministic
order, based on variable references instead of cells' positions on the page.
Organize your notebooks to best fit the stories you'd like to tell.

**Built-in package management.** marimo has built-in support for all major
package managers, letting you [install packages on import](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/package_management.html). marimo can even
[serialize package
requirements](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/package_reproducibility.html)
in notebook files, and auto install them in
isolated venv sandboxes.

**Batteries-included.** marimo comes with GitHub Copilot, AI assistants, Ruff
code formatting, HTML export, fast code completion, a [VS Code
extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marimo-team.vscode-marimo),
an interactive dataframe viewer, and [many more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/index.html)
quality-of-life features.

## Quickstart

**Installation.** In a terminal, run

```bash
pip install marimo  # or conda install -c conda-forge marimo
marimo tutorial intro
```

To install with additional dependencies that unlock SQL cells, AI completion, and more,
run

```bash
pip install marimo[recommended]
```

**Create notebooks.**

Create or edit notebooks with

```bash
marimo edit
```

**Run apps.** Run your notebook as a web app, with Python
code hidden and uneditable:

```bash
marimo run your_notebook.py
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-model-comparison.gif" style="border-radius: 8px" width="450px" />

**Execute as scripts.** Execute a notebook as a script at the
command line:

```bash
python your_notebook.py
```

**Automatically convert Jupyter notebooks.** Automatically convert Jupyter
notebooks to marimo notebooks with the CLI

```bash
marimo convert your_notebook.ipynb > your_notebook.py
```

or use our [web interface](https://marimo.io/convert).

**Tutorials.**
List all tutorials:

```bash
marimo tutorial --help
```

## Questions?

See the [FAQ](https://docs.marimo.io/faq.html) at our docs.

## Learn more

marimo is easy to get started with, with lots of room for power users.
For example, here's an embedding visualizer made in marimo
([video](https://marimo.io/videos/landing/full.mp4)):

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/embedding.gif" width="700px" />

Check out our [docs](https://docs.marimo.io),
[usage examples](https://docs.marimo.io/examples/), and our [gallery](https://marimo.io/gallery) to learn more.

<table border="0">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/getting_started/key_concepts.html">
        <img src="https://docs.marimo.io/_static/reactive.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/index.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-ui.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/plotting.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-intro.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/layouts/index.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/outputs.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/getting_started/key_concepts.html"> Tutorial </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/index.html"> Inputs </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/plotting.html"> Plots </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/layouts/index.html"> Layout </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/c7h6pz">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/0ue871">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/lxp1jk">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/14ovyr">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Contributing

We appreciate all contributions! You don't need to be an expert to help out.
Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details on how to get
started.

> Questions? Reach out to us [on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme).

## Community

We're building a community. Come hang out with us!

- 🌟 [Star us on GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo)
- 💬 [Chat with us on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme)
- 📧 [Subscribe to our Newsletter](https://marimo.io/newsletter)
- ☁️ [Join our Cloud Waitlist](https://marimo.io/cloud)
- ✏️ [Start a GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/discussions)
- 🦋 [Follow us on Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/marimo.io)
- 🐦 [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/marimo_io)
- 🎥 [Subscribe on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@marimo-team)
- 🕴️ [Follow us on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/marimo-io)

## Inspiration ✨

marimo is a **reinvention** of the Python notebook as a reproducible, interactive,
and shareable Python program, instead of an error-prone JSON scratchpad.

We believe that the tools we use shape the way we think — better tools, for
better minds. With marimo, we hope to provide the Python community with a
better programming environment to do research and communicate it; to experiment
with code and share it; to learn computational science and teach it.

Our inspiration comes from many places and projects, especially
[Pluto.jl](https://github.com/fonsp/Pluto.jl),
[ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/tutorials), and
[Bret Victor's essays](http://worrydream.com/). marimo is part of
a greater movement toward reactive dataflow programming. From
[IPyflow](https://github.com/ipyflow/ipyflow), [streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit),
[TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow),
[PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/tree/main),
[JAX](https://github.com/google/jax), and
[React](https://github.com/facebook/react), the ideas of functional,
declarative, and reactive programming are transforming a broad range of tools
for the better.

<p align="right">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/marimo-logotype-horizontal.png" height="200px">
</p>

Commit message:

docs: mention data warehouses, data lakes (#5048)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/marimo-logotype-thick.svg">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <em>A reactive Python notebook that's reproducible, git-friendly, and deployable as scripts or apps.</em>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://docs.marimo.io" target="_blank"><strong>Docs</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme" target="_blank"><strong>Discord</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://docs.marimo.io/examples/" target="_blank"><strong>Examples</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://marimo.io/gallery/" target="_blank"><strong>Gallery</strong></a> ·
  <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@marimo-team/" target="_blank"><strong>YouTube</strong></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <b>English | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Chinese.md" target="_blank"><b>简体中文</b></a>
  <b> | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Japanese.md" target="_blank"><b>日本語</b></a>
  <b> | </b>
  <a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/README_Spanish.md" target="_blank"><b>Español</b></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://pypi.org/project/marimo/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/marimo?color=%2334D058&label=pypi"/></a>
<a href="https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/marimo"><img src="https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/marimo.svg"/></a>
<a href="https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme"><img src="https://shields.io/discord/1059888774789730424" alt="discord" /></a>
<img alt="Pepy Total Downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/pepy/dt/marimo?label=pypi%20%7C%20downloads"/>
<img alt="Conda Downloads" src="https://img.shields.io/conda/d/conda-forge/marimo" />
<a href="https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/marimo" /></a>
</p>

**marimo** is a reactive Python notebook: run a cell or interact with a UI
element, and marimo automatically runs dependent cells (or <a href="#expensive-notebooks">marks them as stale</a>), keeping code and outputs
consistent. marimo notebooks are stored as pure Python, executable as scripts,
and deployable as apps.

**Highlights**.

- 🚀 **batteries-included:** replaces `jupyter`, `streamlit`, `jupytext`, `ipywidgets`, `papermill`, and more
- ⚡️ **reactive**: run a cell, and marimo reactively [runs all dependent cells](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/reactivity.html) or <a href="#expensive-notebooks">marks them as stale</a>
- 🖐️ **interactive:** [bind sliders, tables, plots, and more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/interactivity.html) to Python — no callbacks required
- 🐍 **git-friendly:** stored as `.py` files
- 🛢️ **designed for data**: query dataframes, databases, warehouses, or lakehouses [with SQL](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/sql.html), filter and search [dataframes](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/dataframes.html)
- 🔬 **reproducible:** [no hidden state](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/reactivity.html#no-hidden-state), deterministic execution, [built-in package management](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/package_management.html)
- 🏃 **executable:** [execute as a Python script](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/scripts.html), parameterized by CLI args
- 🛜 **shareable**: [deploy as an interactive web app](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/apps.html) or [slides](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/apps.html#slides-layout), [run in the browser via WASM](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/wasm.html)
- 🧩 **reusable:** [import functions and classes](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/reusing_functions/) from one notebook to another
- 🧪 **testable:** [run pytest](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/testing/) on notebooks
- ⌨️ **a modern editor**: [GitHub Copilot](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/ai_completion.html#github-copilot), [AI assistants](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/ai_completion.html#using-ollama), vim keybindings, variable explorer, and [more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/index.html)

```python
pip install marimo && marimo tutorial intro
```

_Try marimo at [our online playground](https://marimo.app/l/c7h6pz), which runs entirely in the browser!_

_Jump to the [quickstart](#quickstart) for a primer on our CLI._

## A reactive programming environment

marimo guarantees your notebook code, outputs, and program state are consistent. This [solves many problems](https://docs.marimo.io/faq.html#faq-problems) associated with traditional notebooks like Jupyter.

**A reactive programming environment.**
Run a cell and marimo _reacts_ by automatically running the cells that
reference its variables, eliminating the error-prone task of manually
re-running cells. Delete a cell and marimo scrubs its variables from program
memory, eliminating hidden state.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/reactive.gif" width="700px" />

<a name="expensive-notebooks"></a>

**Compatible with expensive notebooks.** marimo lets you [configure the runtime
to be
lazy](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.html),
marking affected cells as stale instead of automatically running them. This
gives you guarantees on program state while preventing accidental execution of
expensive cells.

**Synchronized UI elements.** Interact with [UI
elements](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/interactivity.html) like [sliders](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/slider.html#slider),
[dropdowns](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/dropdown.html), [dataframe
transformers](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/dataframe.html), and [chat
interfaces](https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/chat.html), and the cells that
use them are automatically re-run with their latest values.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-ui.gif" width="700px" />

**Interactive dataframes.** [Page through, search, filter, and
sort](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/dataframes.html)
millions of rows blazingly fast, no code required.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-df.gif" width="700px" />

**Performant runtime.** marimo runs only those cells that need to be run by
statically analyzing your code.

**Dynamic markdown and SQL.** Use markdown to tell dynamic stories that depend on
Python data. Or build [SQL](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/sql.html) queries
that depend on Python values and execute them against dataframes, databases,
CSVs, Google Sheets, or anything else using our built-in SQL engine, which
returns the result as a Python dataframe.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-sql-cell.png" width="700px" />

Your notebooks are still pure Python, even if they use markdown or SQL.

**Deterministic execution order.** Notebooks are executed in a deterministic
order, based on variable references instead of cells' positions on the page.
Organize your notebooks to best fit the stories you'd like to tell.

**Built-in package management.** marimo has built-in support for all major
package managers, letting you [install packages on import](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/package_management.html). marimo can even
[serialize package
requirements](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/package_reproducibility.html)
in notebook files, and auto install them in
isolated venv sandboxes.

**Batteries-included.** marimo comes with GitHub Copilot, AI assistants, Ruff
code formatting, HTML export, fast code completion, a [VS Code
extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marimo-team.vscode-marimo),
an interactive dataframe viewer, and [many more](https://docs.marimo.io/guides/editor_features/index.html)
quality-of-life features.

## Quickstart

**Installation.** In a terminal, run

```bash
pip install marimo  # or conda install -c conda-forge marimo
marimo tutorial intro
```

To install with additional dependencies that unlock SQL cells, AI completion, and more,
run

```bash
pip install marimo[recommended]
```

**Create notebooks.**

Create or edit notebooks with

```bash
marimo edit
```

**Run apps.** Run your notebook as a web app, with Python
code hidden and uneditable:

```bash
marimo run your_notebook.py
```

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-model-comparison.gif" style="border-radius: 8px" width="450px" />

**Execute as scripts.** Execute a notebook as a script at the
command line:

```bash
python your_notebook.py
```

**Automatically convert Jupyter notebooks.** Automatically convert Jupyter
notebooks to marimo notebooks with the CLI

```bash
marimo convert your_notebook.ipynb > your_notebook.py
```

or use our [web interface](https://marimo.io/convert).

**Tutorials.**
List all tutorials:

```bash
marimo tutorial --help
```

## Questions?

See the [FAQ](https://docs.marimo.io/faq.html) at our docs.

## Learn more

marimo is easy to get started with, with lots of room for power users.
For example, here's an embedding visualizer made in marimo
([video](https://marimo.io/videos/landing/full.mp4)):

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/embedding.gif" width="700px" />

Check out our [docs](https://docs.marimo.io),
[usage examples](https://docs.marimo.io/examples/), and our [gallery](https://marimo.io/gallery) to learn more.

<table border="0">
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/getting_started/key_concepts.html">
        <img src="https://docs.marimo.io/_static/reactive.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/index.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/readme-ui.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/plotting.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/docs-intro.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/layouts/index.html">
        <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/outputs.gif" style="max-height: 150px; width: auto; display: block" />
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/getting_started/key_concepts.html"> Tutorial </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/inputs/index.html"> Inputs </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/guides/working_with_data/plotting.html"> Plots </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://docs.marimo.io/api/layouts/index.html"> Layout </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/c7h6pz">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/0ue871">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/lxp1jk">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
    <td>
      <a target="_blank" href="https://marimo.app/l/14ovyr">
        <img src="https://marimo.io/shield.svg"/>
      </a>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Contributing

We appreciate all contributions! You don't need to be an expert to help out.
Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details on how to get
started.

> Questions? Reach out to us [on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme).

## Community

We're building a community. Come hang out with us!

- 🌟 [Star us on GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo)
- 💬 [Chat with us on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=readme)
- 📧 [Subscribe to our Newsletter](https://marimo.io/newsletter)
- ☁️ [Join our Cloud Waitlist](https://marimo.io/cloud)
- ✏️ [Start a GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/discussions)
- 🦋 [Follow us on Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/marimo.io)
- 🐦 [Follow us on Twitter](https://twitter.com/marimo_io)
- 🎥 [Subscribe on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@marimo-team)
- 🕴️ [Follow us on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/marimo-io)

## Inspiration ✨

marimo is a **reinvention** of the Python notebook as a reproducible, interactive,
and shareable Python program, instead of an error-prone JSON scratchpad.

We believe that the tools we use shape the way we think — better tools, for
better minds. With marimo, we hope to provide the Python community with a
better programming environment to do research and communicate it; to experiment
with code and share it; to learn computational science and teach it.

Our inspiration comes from many places and projects, especially
[Pluto.jl](https://github.com/fonsp/Pluto.jl),
[ObservableHQ](https://observablehq.com/tutorials), and
[Bret Victor's essays](http://worrydream.com/). marimo is part of
a greater movement toward reactive dataflow programming. From
[IPyflow](https://github.com/ipyflow/ipyflow), [streamlit](https://github.com/streamlit/streamlit),
[TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow),
[PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/tree/main),
[JAX](https://github.com/google/jax), and
[React](https://github.com/facebook/react), the ideas of functional,
declarative, and reactive programming are transforming a broad range of tools
for the better.

<p align="right">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/marimo-team/marimo/main/docs/_static/marimo-logotype-horizontal.png" height="200px">
</p>
