docs/guides/configuration/index.md, before:

# Configuration

marimo offers two types of configuration: User Configuration and App
Configuration. Both can be easily managed through the Settings menu in the
marimo editor.

<img align="right" src="/_static/docs-app-config.png" width="300px"/>

## App Configuration

App Configuration is specific to each notebook and is stored in the `notebook.py` file. This allows you to customize various aspects of your notebook, including:

- Notebook width
- Notebook title
- [Custom CSS](theming.md)
- [Custom HTML Head](html_head.md)
- Automatically download HTML snapshots

Configure these settings through the notebook menu (⚙️) in the top-right corner.

<br clear="left"/>

## User Configuration

User Configuration applies globally across all marimo notebooks and is stored
in a `.marimo.toml` file.

While you can edit the `.marimo.toml` file directly, we recommend using the
marimo UI for a more user-friendly experience.

<video controls width="100%" height="100%" align="center" src="/_static/docs-user-config.mp4"> </video>

You can customize the following settings:

- [Runtime](runtime_configuration.md), including whether notebooks autorun
- [Hotkeys](../editor_features/hotkeys.md)
- Completion (auto-completion, AI copilot, etc.)
- Display (theme, font size, output placement, etc.)
- Autosave
- [Package management](../editor_features/package_management.md#package-management)
- Server settings
- [VIM keybindings](../editor_features/overview.md#vim-keybindings)
- Formatting settings
- [AI assistance](../editor_features/ai_completion.md)
- Experimental features

### User configuration file

marimo searches for the `.marimo.toml` file in the following order:

1. Current directory
2. Parent directories (moving up the tree)
3. Home directory (`~/.marimo.toml`)
4. [XDG](https://xdgbasedirectoryspecification.com/) directory (`~/.config/marimo/marimo.toml` or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/marimo/marimo.toml`)

If no `.marimo.toml` file is found, marimo creates one for you in an XDG config
compliant way.

To view your current configuration and locate the config file, run:

```bash
marimo config show
```

To describe the user configuration options, run:

```bash
marimo config describe
```

### Overriding settings with pyproject.toml

You can override user configuration settings with a `pyproject.toml` file. This
is useful for sharing configurations across teams or ensuring consistency across
notebooks. You must edit the `pyproject.toml` file directly to override settings.

For example, the following `pyproject.toml` file overrides the `autosave` setting
in the user configuration:

```toml title="pyproject.toml"
[tool.marimo.format]
line_length = 120

[tool.marimo.display]
default_width = "full"
```

You can override any user configuration setting in this way. To find these settings run `marimo config show`.

!!! note "Overridden settings"
    Settings overridden in `pyproject.toml` or script metadata cannot be changed through the marimo editor's settings menu. Any changes made to overridden settings in the editor will not take effect.

### Script Metadata Configuration

You can also configure marimo settings directly in your notebook files using script metadata (PEP 723). Add a `script` block at the top of your notebook:

```python
# /// script
# [tool.marimo.runtime]
# auto_instantiate = false
# on_cell_change = "lazy"
# [tool.marimo.display]
# theme = "dark"
# cell_output = "below"
# ///
```

!!! note "Configuration precedence"
    Script metadata configuration has the highest precedence, followed by `pyproject.toml` configuration, then user configuration:

    **Script config > pyproject.toml config > user config**

## Environment Variables

marimo supports the following environment variables for advanced configuration:

| Environment Variable          | Description                                                                                                                  | Default Value   |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `MARIMO_OUTPUT_MAX_BYTES`     | Maximum size of output that marimo will display. Outputs larger than this will be truncated.                                 | 5,000,000 (5MB) |
| `MARIMO_STD_STREAM_MAX_BYTES` | Maximum size of standard stream (stdout/stderr) output that marimo will display. Outputs larger than this will be truncated. | 1,000,000 (1MB) |
| `MARIMO_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK`    | If set to "1", marimo will skip checking for updates when starting.                                                          | Not set         |
| `MARIMO_SQL_DEFAULT_LIMIT`    | Default limit for SQL query results. If not set, no limit is applied.                                                        | Not set         |

### Tips

- The `.marimo.toml` file can be version controlled to share configurations across teams
- App configurations can be committed with notebooks to ensure consistent appearance

Commit message:

improve: configure output max bytes with pyproject.toml (#3858)
This adds runtime configuration to control the max size in bytes for
outputs in console outputs. Previously these were only controlled by
environment variables. This change lets apply their settings globally
via a pyproject.toml, or locally for a file via inline script metadata.

Closes #3376

---------

Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Myles Scolnick <myles@marimo.io>

docs/guides/configuration/index.md, after:

# Configuration

marimo offers two types of configuration: User Configuration and App
Configuration. Both can be easily managed through the Settings menu in the
marimo editor.

<img align="right" src="/_static/docs-app-config.png" width="300px"/>

## App Configuration

App Configuration is specific to each notebook and is stored in the `notebook.py` file. This allows you to customize various aspects of your notebook, including:

- Notebook width
- Notebook title
- [Custom CSS](theming.md)
- [Custom HTML Head](html_head.md)
- Automatically download HTML snapshots

Configure these settings through the notebook menu (⚙️) in the top-right corner.

<br clear="left"/>

## User Configuration

User Configuration applies globally across all marimo notebooks and is stored
in a `.marimo.toml` file.

While you can edit the `.marimo.toml` file directly, we recommend using the
marimo UI for a more user-friendly experience.

<video controls width="100%" height="100%" align="center" src="/_static/docs-user-config.mp4"> </video>

You can customize the following settings:

- [Runtime](runtime_configuration.md), including whether notebooks autorun
- [Hotkeys](../editor_features/hotkeys.md)
- Completion (auto-completion, AI copilot, etc.)
- Display (theme, font size, output placement, etc.)
- Autosave
- [Package management](../editor_features/package_management.md#package-management)
- Server settings
- [VIM keybindings](../editor_features/overview.md#vim-keybindings)
- Formatting settings
- [AI assistance](../editor_features/ai_completion.md)
- Experimental features

### User configuration file

marimo searches for the `.marimo.toml` file in the following order:

1. Current directory
2. Parent directories (moving up the tree)
3. Home directory (`~/.marimo.toml`)
4. [XDG](https://xdgbasedirectoryspecification.com/) directory (`~/.config/marimo/marimo.toml` or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/marimo/marimo.toml`)

If no `.marimo.toml` file is found, marimo creates one for you in an XDG config
compliant way.

To view your current configuration and locate the config file, run:

```bash
marimo config show
```

To describe the user configuration options, run:

```bash
marimo config describe
```

### Overriding settings with pyproject.toml

You can override user configuration settings with a `pyproject.toml` file. This
is useful for sharing configurations across teams or ensuring consistency across
notebooks. You must edit the `pyproject.toml` file directly to override settings.

For example, the following `pyproject.toml` file overrides the `autosave` setting
in the user configuration:

```toml title="pyproject.toml"
[tool.marimo.format]
line_length = 120

[tool.marimo.display]
default_width = "full"
```

You can override any user configuration setting in this way. To find these settings run `marimo config show`.

!!! note "Overridden settings"
    Settings overridden in `pyproject.toml` or script metadata cannot be changed through the marimo editor's settings menu. Any changes made to overridden settings in the editor will not take effect.

### Script Metadata Configuration

You can also configure marimo settings directly in your notebook files using script metadata (PEP 723). Add a `script` block at the top of your notebook:

```python
# /// script
# [tool.marimo.runtime]
# auto_instantiate = false
# on_cell_change = "lazy"
# [tool.marimo.display]
# theme = "dark"
# cell_output = "below"
# ///
```

!!! note "Configuration precedence"
    Script metadata configuration has the highest precedence, followed by `pyproject.toml` configuration, then user configuration:

    **Script config > pyproject.toml config > user config**

## Environment Variables

marimo supports the following environment variables for advanced configuration:

| Environment Variable          | Description                                                                                                                  | Default Value   |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `MARIMO_OUTPUT_MAX_BYTES` (deprecated, use `pyproject.toml`)     | Maximum size of output that marimo will display. Outputs larger than this will be truncated.                                 | 8,000,000 (8MB) |
| `MARIMO_STD_STREAM_MAX_BYTES` (deprecated, use `pyproject.toml`) | Maximum size of standard stream (stdout/stderr) output that marimo will display. Outputs larger than this will be truncated. | 1,000,000 (1MB) |
| `MARIMO_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK`    | If set to "1", marimo will skip checking for updates when starting.                                                          | Not set         |
| `MARIMO_SQL_DEFAULT_LIMIT`    | Default limit for SQL query results. If not set, no limit is applied.                                                        | Not set         |

### Tips

- The `.marimo.toml` file can be version controlled to share configurations across teams
- App configurations can be committed with notebooks to ensure consistent appearance
