docs/guides/expensive_notebooks.md, before:

# Working with expensive notebooks

marimo provides tools to control when cells run. Use these tools to
prevent expensive cells, which may call APIs or take a long time to run, from
accidentally running.

## Stop execution with `mo.stop`

Use [`mo.stop`][marimo.stop] to stop a cell from executing if a condition
is met:

```python
# if condition is True, the cell will stop executing after mo.stop() returns
mo.stop(condition)
# this won't be called if condition is True
expensive_function_call()
```

Use [`mo.stop`][marimo.stop] with
[`mo.ui.run_button()`][marimo.ui.run_button] to require a button press for
expensive cells:

/// marimo-embed
    size: medium

```python
@app.cell
def __():
    run_button = mo.ui.run_button()
    run_button
    return

@app.cell
def __():
    mo.stop(not run_button.value, mo.md("Click 👆 to run this cell"))
    mo.md("You clicked the button! 🎉")
    return
```

///

## Configure how marimo runs cells

### Disabling cell autorun

If you habitually work with very expensive notebooks, you can
[disable automatic
execution](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md#on-cell-change). When
automatic execution is disabled, when you run a cell, marimo
marks dependent cells as stale instead of running them automatically.

### Disabling autorun on startup

marimo autoruns notebooks on startup, with `marimo edit notebook.py` behaving
analogously to `python notebook.py`. This can also be disabled through the
[notebook settings](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md#on-startup).

### Disable individual cells

marimo lets you temporarily disable cells from automatically running. This is
helpful when you want to edit one part of a notebook without triggering
execution of other parts. See the
[reactivity guide](../guides/reactivity.md#disabling-cells) for more info.

## Caching

marimo provides two caching utilities to help you manage expensive computations:

1. In-memory caching with [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache]
2. Disk caching with [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache]

Both utilities can be used as decorators or context managers.

### In-memory caching

Use [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] to cache the return values of
expensive functions, based on their arguments:

/// tab | decorator

```python
import marimo as mo

@mo.cache
def compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
  # do some expensive computations and return a value
  ...
```

///

/// tab | context manager

```python
import marimo as mo

with mo.cache("my_cache") as c:
    predictions = compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
```

///


When `compute_predictions` is called with a value of
`problem_parameters` it hasn't seen, it will compute the predictions and store
them in an in-memory cache. The next time it is called with the same
parameters, instead of recomputing the predictions, it will return the
previously computed value from the cache.

??? note "Comparison to `functools.cache`"

    [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] is like `functools.cache` but smarter.
    `functools` will sometimes evict values from the cache when it doesn't need to.

    In particular, consider the case when a cell defining a `@mo.cache`-d function
    re-runs due to an ancestor of it running, or a UI element value changing.
    `mo.cache` will analyze the dataflow graph to determine whether or not the
    decorated function has changed, and if it hasn't, it's cache won't be
    invalidated. In contrast, on re-run a `functools` cache is always invalidated,
    because `functools` has no knowledge about the structure of marimo's dataflow
    graph.

    Conversely, [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] knows to invalidate the cache if
    closed over variables change, whereas `functools.cache` doesn't, yielding
    incorrect cache hits.

    [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] is slightly slower than `functools.cache`, but
    in most applications the overhead is negligible. For performance critical code,
    where the decorated function will be called in a tight loop, prefer
    `functools.cache`.

### Disk caching

Use [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache] to cache variables to
disk. The next time your run your notebook, the cached variables will be loaded
from disk instead of being recomputed, letting you pick up where you left off.

Reserve this for expensive computations that you would like to persist across
notebook restarts. Cached outputs are automatically saved to `__marimo__/cache`.

**Example.**

/// tab | decorator

```python
import marimo as mo

@mo.persistent_cache(name="my_cache")
def compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
    # do some expensive computations and return a value
    ...
```
///


/// tab | context manager

```python
import marimo as mo

with mo.persistent_cache(name="my_cache"):
    # This block of code and its computed variables will be cached to disk
    # the first time it's run. The next time it's run, `predictions``
    # will be loaded from disk.
    predictions = compute_predictions(problem_parameters)
    ...
```

///

Roughly speaking, [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache] registers a
cache hit when the cell is not stale, meaning its code hasn't changed and
neither have its ancestors. On cache hit the code block won't execute and
instead variables will be loaded into memory.

## Lazy-load expensive UIs

Lazily render UI elements that are expensive to compute using
`marimo.lazy`.

For example,

```python
import marimo as mo

data = db.query("SELECT * FROM data")
mo.lazy(mo.ui.table(data))
```

In this example, `mo.ui.table(data)` will not be rendered on the frontend until is it in the viewport.
For example, an element can be out of the viewport due to scroll, inside a tab that is not selected, or inside an accordion that is not open.

However, in this example, data is eagerly computed, while only the rendering of the table is lazy. It is possible to lazily compute the data as well: see the next example.

```python
import marimo as mo

def expensive_component():
    import time
    time.sleep(1)
    data = db.query("SELECT * FROM data")
    return mo.ui.table(data)

accordion = mo.accordion({
    "Charts": mo.lazy(expensive_component)
})
```

In this example, we pass a function to `mo.lazy` instead of a component. This
function will only be called when the user opens the accordion. In this way,
`expensive_component` lazily computed and we only query the database when the
user needs to see the data. This can be useful when the data is expensive to
compute and the user may not need to see it immediately.

Commit message:

docs: ipynb snapshots working with expensive notebooks

docs/guides/expensive_notebooks.md, after:

# Working with expensive notebooks

marimo provides tools to control when cells run. Use these tools to
prevent expensive cells, which may call APIs or take a long time to run, from
accidentally running.

## Stop execution with `mo.stop`

Use [`mo.stop`][marimo.stop] to stop a cell from executing if a condition
is met:

```python
# if condition is True, the cell will stop executing after mo.stop() returns
mo.stop(condition)
# this won't be called if condition is True
expensive_function_call()
```

Use [`mo.stop`][marimo.stop] with
[`mo.ui.run_button()`][marimo.ui.run_button] to require a button press for
expensive cells:

/// marimo-embed
    size: medium

```python
@app.cell
def __():
    run_button = mo.ui.run_button()
    run_button
    return

@app.cell
def __():
    mo.stop(not run_button.value, mo.md("Click 👆 to run this cell"))
    mo.md("You clicked the button! 🎉")
    return
```

///

## Configure how marimo runs cells

### Disabling cell autorun

If you habitually work with very expensive notebooks, you can
[disable automatic
execution](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md#on-cell-change). When
automatic execution is disabled, when you run a cell, marimo
marks dependent cells as stale instead of running them automatically.

### Disabling autorun on startup

marimo autoruns notebooks on startup, with `marimo edit notebook.py` behaving
analogously to `python notebook.py`. This can also be disabled through the
[notebook settings](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md#on-startup).

### Disable individual cells

marimo lets you temporarily disable cells from automatically running. This is
helpful when you want to edit one part of a notebook without triggering
execution of other parts. See the
[reactivity guide](../guides/reactivity.md#disabling-cells) for more info.

## Automatic snapshotting as HTML or ipynb

To keep a record of your cell outputs while working on your
notebook, you can configure notebooks to automatically save as HTML or ipynb
through the notebook menu (these files are saved in addition to the
notebook's `.py` file). Snapshots are saved to a folder called
`__marimo__` in the notebook directory.

Learn more about exporting notebooks in our [exporting guide](../guides/exporting.md).

## Caching

marimo provides two caching utilities to help you manage expensive computations:

1. In-memory caching with [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache]
2. Disk caching with [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache]

Both utilities can be used as decorators or context managers.

### In-memory caching

Use [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] to cache the return values of
expensive functions, based on their arguments:

/// tab | decorator

```python
import marimo as mo

@mo.cache
def compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
  # do some expensive computations and return a value
  ...
```

///

/// tab | context manager

```python
import marimo as mo

with mo.cache("my_cache") as c:
    predictions = compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
```

///


When `compute_predictions` is called with a value of
`problem_parameters` it hasn't seen, it will compute the predictions and store
them in an in-memory cache. The next time it is called with the same
parameters, instead of recomputing the predictions, it will return the
previously computed value from the cache.

??? note "Comparison to `functools.cache`"

    [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] is like `functools.cache` but smarter.
    `functools` will sometimes evict values from the cache when it doesn't need to.

    In particular, consider the case when a cell defining a `@mo.cache`-d function
    re-runs due to an ancestor of it running, or a UI element value changing.
    `mo.cache` will analyze the dataflow graph to determine whether or not the
    decorated function has changed, and if it hasn't, it's cache won't be
    invalidated. In contrast, on re-run a `functools` cache is always invalidated,
    because `functools` has no knowledge about the structure of marimo's dataflow
    graph.

    Conversely, [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] knows to invalidate the cache if
    closed over variables change, whereas `functools.cache` doesn't, yielding
    incorrect cache hits.

    [`mo.cache`][marimo.cache] is slightly slower than `functools.cache`, but
    in most applications the overhead is negligible. For performance critical code,
    where the decorated function will be called in a tight loop, prefer
    `functools.cache`.

### Disk caching

Use [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache] to cache variables to
disk. The next time your run your notebook, the cached variables will be loaded
from disk instead of being recomputed, letting you pick up where you left off.

Reserve this for expensive computations that you would like to persist across
notebook restarts. Cached outputs are automatically saved to `__marimo__/cache`.

**Example.**

/// tab | decorator

```python
import marimo as mo

@mo.persistent_cache(name="my_cache")
def compute_predictions(problem_parameters):
    # do some expensive computations and return a value
    ...
```
///


/// tab | context manager

```python
import marimo as mo

with mo.persistent_cache(name="my_cache"):
    # This block of code and its computed variables will be cached to disk
    # the first time it's run. The next time it's run, `predictions``
    # will be loaded from disk.
    predictions = compute_predictions(problem_parameters)
    ...
```

///

Roughly speaking, [`mo.persistent_cache`][marimo.persistent_cache] registers a
cache hit when the cell is not stale, meaning its code hasn't changed and
neither have its ancestors. On cache hit the code block won't execute and
instead variables will be loaded into memory.

## Lazy-load expensive UIs

Lazily render UI elements that are expensive to compute using
`marimo.lazy`.

For example,

```python
import marimo as mo

data = db.query("SELECT * FROM data")
mo.lazy(mo.ui.table(data))
```

In this example, `mo.ui.table(data)` will not be rendered on the frontend until is it in the viewport.
For example, an element can be out of the viewport due to scroll, inside a tab that is not selected, or inside an accordion that is not open.

However, in this example, data is eagerly computed, while only the rendering of the table is lazy. It is possible to lazily compute the data as well: see the next example.

```python
import marimo as mo

def expensive_component():
    import time
    time.sleep(1)
    data = db.query("SELECT * FROM data")
    return mo.ui.table(data)

accordion = mo.accordion({
    "Charts": mo.lazy(expensive_component)
})
```

In this example, we pass a function to `mo.lazy` instead of a component. This
function will only be called when the user opens the accordion. In this way,
`expensive_component` lazily computed and we only query the database when the
user needs to see the data. This can be useful when the data is expensive to
compute and the user may not need to see it immediately.
