docs/guides/exporting.md, before:

# Exporting to HTML and other formats

Export marimo notebooks to other file formats at the command line using

```bash
marimo export
```

## Export to static HTML

### Export from a running notebook

Export the current view your notebook to static HTML via the notebook
menu:

<div align="center">
<figure>
<img src="/_static/docs-html-export.png"/>
<figcaption>Download as static HTML.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

Additionally, you can configure individual notebooks to automatically
save as HTML through the notebook menu. These automatic snapshots are
saved to a folder called `__marimo__` in the notebook directory.

### Export from the command line

Export to HTML at the command line:

```bash
marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html
```

or watch the notebook for changes and automatically export to HTML:

```bash
marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html --watch
```

When you export from the command line, marimo runs your notebook to produce
its visual outputs before saving as HTML.

!!! note "Note"

    If any cells error during the export process, the status code will be non-zero. However, the export result may still be generated, with the error included in the output.
    Errors can be ignored by appending `|| true` to the command, e.g. `marimo export html notebook.py || true`.

### Pre-render HTML exports

Static marimo exports execute Javascript to render the notebook source code as HTML at browser runtime. If you would like to directly serve the HTML representation of your notebook, you can run the following post-processing script and serve the resulting file instead.

```python
# /// script
# requires-python = ">=3.9"
# dependencies = [
#     "playwright",
# ]
# ///

import os
import subprocess
from playwright.sync_api import sync_playwright

input_file = "input.html"
output_file = "output.html"

subprocess.run(["playwright", "install", "chromium-headless-shell"], check=True)

with sync_playwright() as p:
    with p.chromium.launch(headless=True) as browser:
        page = browser.new_page()
        page.goto(
            f"file:///{os.path.abspath(input_file)}",
            wait_until="networkidle",
        )
        with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
            f.write(page.content())
```

## Export to a Python script

Export to a flat Python script in topological order, so the cells adhere to
their dependency graph.

```bash
marimo export script notebook.py -o notebook.script.py
```

!!! warning "Top-level await not supported"

    Exporting to a flat Python script does not support top-level await. If you have
    top-level await in your notebook, you can still execute the notebook as a
    script with `python notebook.py`.

## Export to markdown

Export to markdown notebook in top to bottom order, so the cells are in the
order as they appear in the notebook.

```bash
marimo export md notebook.py -o notebook.md
```

This can be useful to plug into other tools that read markdown, such as [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) or [MyST](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/).

You can also convert the markdown back to a marimo notebook:

```bash
marimo convert notebook.md > notebook.py
```

## Export to Jupyter notebook

Export to Jupyter notebook in topological order, so the cells adhere to
their dependency graph.

```bash
marimo export ipynb notebook.py -o notebook.ipynb
```

## Exporting to PDF, slides, or rst

If you export to a Jupyter notebook, you can leverage various Jupyter ecosystem tools. For PDFs, you will
need to have [Pandoc](https://nbconvert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-pandoc) and [Tex](https://nbconvert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-tex) installed. The examples below use `uvx`, which you can obtain by [installing `uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/).

```bash
NOTEBOOK=notebook.ipynb

# Convert to PDF using nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to pdf $NOTEBOOK

# Convert to web PDF
uvx --with "nbconvert[webpdf]" --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to webpdf $NOTEBOOK --allow-chromium-download

# Convert to slides
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to slides $NOTEBOOK

# Convert to rst with nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to rst $NOTEBOOK

# Generate PNG/PDF of specific cells using nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --with jupyter --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to pdf --execute --stdout $NOTEBOOK \
  --TemplateExporter.exclude_input=True

# Use nbconvert programmatically for more control
uv run --with nbconvert python -c "
from nbconvert import PDFExporter
import nbformat
nb = nbformat.read('$NOTEBOOK', as_version=4)
pdf_exporter = PDFExporter()
pdf_data, resources = pdf_exporter.from_notebook_node(nb)
with open('notebook.pdf', 'wb') as f:
    f.write(pdf_data)
"
```

You can also use other tools that work with Jupyter notebooks:

- [Quarto](https://quarto.org) - Create beautiful documents, websites, presentations
- [nbgrader](https://nbgrader.readthedocs.io/) - Grade notebook assignments

## Export to WASM-powered HTML

Export your notebook to a self-contained HTML file that runs using WebAssembly:

```bash
# export as readonly, with code locked
marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o output_dir --mode run
# export as an editable notebook
marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o output_dir --mode edit
```

The exported HTML file will run your notebook using WebAssembly, making it completely self-contained and executable in the browser. This means users can interact with your notebook without needing Python or marimo installed.

Options:

- `--mode`: Choose between `run` (read-only) or `edit` (allows editing)
- `--output`: Directory to save the HTML and required assets
- `--show-code/--no-show-code`: Whether to initially show or hide the code in the notebook
- `--watch/--no-watch`: Watch the notebook for changes and automatically export
- `--include-cloudflare`: Write configuration files necessary for deploying to Cloudflare

!!! note "Note"

    The exported file must be served over HTTP to function correctly - it
    cannot be opened directly from the filesystem (`file://`). Your server must
    also serve the assets in the `assets` directory, next to the HTML file. For
    a simpler publishing experience, publish to [GitHub
    Pages](publishing/github_pages.md), [Cloudflare](publishing/cloudflare.md) or use the [online
    playground](publishing/playground.md).

??? note "Deploying to Cloudflare"

    You can include `--include-cloudflare` for deploying to Cloudflare. For example:

    ```
    marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o my_app/dist --include-cloudflare
    ```

    To run locally, run:

    ```
    npx wrangler dev
    ```

    To deploy to Cloudflare, run:

    ```
    npx wrangler deploy
    ```

### Testing the export

You can test the export by running the following command in the directory containing your notebook:

```bash
cd path/to/output_dir
python -m http.server
```

### Including data files

See the docs for [mo.notebook_location][marimo.notebook_location] to learn how
to include data files in exported WASM HTML notebooks.

### Publishing to GitHub Pages

After exporting your notebook to WASM HTML, you can publish it to
[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) for free. See our [guide on
GitHub Pages](publishing/github_pages.md) to learn more.

### Exporting multiple notebooks

In order to export multiple notebooks under the same folder, you can use the following snippet:

```bash
files=("batch_and_form.py" "data_explorer.py")

for file in "${files[@]}"; do
  without_extension="${file%.*}"
  marimo export html-wasm "$file" -o site/"$without_extension".html --mode run
done
```

Optionally, you can create an `index.html` file in the public directory:

```bash
echo "<html><body><ul>" > site/index.html
for file in "${files[@]}"; do
  without_extension="${file%.*}"
  echo "<li><a href=\"$without_extension.html\">$without_extension</a></li>" >> site/index.html
done
echo "</ul></body></html>" >> site/index.html
```

## 🏝️ Embed marimo outputs in HTML using Islands

!!! note "Preview"

    Islands are an early feature. While the API likely won't change, there are some improvements we'd like to make before we consider them stable.
    Please let us know on [GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/issues) if you run into any issues or have any feedback!

marimo islands are a way to embed marimo outputs and/or python code in your HTML that will become interactive when the page is loaded. This is useful for creating interactive blog posts, tutorials, and educational materials, all powered by marimo's reactive runtime.

Check out an [example island-powered document](./island_example.md).

### Generating islands

Use `MarimoIslandGenerator` to generate HTML for islands

!!! example
    /// tab | From code blocks

    ```python
    import asyncio
    import sys
    from marimo import MarimoIslandGenerator

    if sys.platform == 'win32':
        asyncio.set_event_loop_policy(asyncio.WindowsSelectorEventLoopPolicy())

    async def main():
        generator = MarimoIslandGenerator()
        block1 = generator.add_code("import marimo as mo")
        block2 = generator.add_code("mo.md('Hello, islands!')")

        # Build the app
        app = await generator.build()

        # Render the app
        output = f"""
        <html>
            <head>
                {generator.render_head()}
            </head>
            <body>
                {block1.render(display_output=False)}
                {block2.render()}
            </body>
        </html>
        """
        print(output)
        # Save the HTML to a file
        output_file = "output.html"
        with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
            f.write(output)

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        asyncio.run(main())
    ```

    ///

    /// tab | From notebook files

    ```python
    from marimo import MarimoIslandGenerator

    # Create the generator from file
    generator = MarimoIslandGenerator.from_file("./<notebook-name>.py", display_code=False)

    # Generate and print the HTML without building
    # This will still work for basic rendering, though without running the cells
    html = generator.render_html(include_init_island=False)
    print(html)
    # Save the HTML to a file
    output_file = "output.html"
    with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
        f.write(html)
    ```

    ///

Any relevant `.html` that gets generated can be run through the [`development.md`](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/frontend/islands/development.md) file instructions.

### Islands in action

!!! warning "Advanced topic!"

    Islands are an advanced concept that is meant to be a building block for creating integrations with existing tools such as static site generators or documentation tools.

In order to use marimo islands, you need to import the necessary JS/CSS headers in your HTML file, and use our custom HTML tags to define the islands.

```html
<head>
  <!-- marimo js/ccs --
  <script type="module" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@marimo-team/islands@<version>/dist/main.js"></script>
  <link
    href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@marimo-team/islands@<version>/dist/style.css"
    rel="stylesheet"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
  />
  <!-- fonts -->
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com" />
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
  <link
    href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Mono:wght@400;500;700&amp;family=Lora&amp;family=PT+Sans:wght@400;700&amp;display=swap"
    rel="stylesheet"
  />
  <link
    rel="stylesheet"
    href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.16.10/dist/katex.min.css"
    integrity="sha384-wcIxkf4k558AjM3Yz3BBFQUbk/zgIYC2R0QpeeYb+TwlBVMrlgLqwRjRtGZiK7ww"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
  />
</head>

<body>
  <marimo-island data-app-id="main" data-cell-id="MJUe" data-reactive="true">
    <marimo-cell-output>
      <span class="markdown">
        <span class="paragraph">Hello, islands!</span>
      </span>
    </marimo-cell-output>
    <marimo-cell-code hidden>mo.md('Hello islands 🏝️!')</marimo-cell-code>
  </marimo-island>
</body>
```

::: marimo.MarimoIslandGenerator

Commit message:

docs: document markdown format and add quarto/ mkdocs plugins (#4736)
## 📝 Summary

Update the docs to mention the markdown format in various places, in
addition to mentioning the mkdocs and quarto plugins

@akshayka OR @mscolnick

---------

Co-authored-by: Akshay Agrawal <akshay@marimo.io>
Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guides/exporting.md, after:

# Exporting to HTML and other formats

Export marimo notebooks to other file formats at the command line using

```bash
marimo export
```

## Export to static HTML

### Export from a running notebook

Export the current view your notebook to static HTML via the notebook
menu:

<div align="center">
<figure>
<img src="/_static/docs-html-export.png"/>
<figcaption>Download as static HTML.</figcaption>
</figure>
</div>

Additionally, you can configure individual notebooks to automatically
save as HTML through the notebook menu. These automatic snapshots are
saved to a folder called `__marimo__` in the notebook directory.

### Export from the command line

Export to HTML at the command line:

```bash
marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html
```

or watch the notebook for changes and automatically export to HTML:

```bash
marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html --watch
```

When you export from the command line, marimo runs your notebook to produce
its visual outputs before saving as HTML.

!!! note "Note"

    If any cells error during the export process, the status code will be non-zero. However, the export result may still be generated, with the error included in the output.
    Errors can be ignored by appending `|| true` to the command, e.g. `marimo export html notebook.py || true`.

### Pre-render HTML exports

Static marimo exports execute Javascript to render the notebook source code as HTML at browser runtime. If you would like to directly serve the HTML representation of your notebook, you can run the following post-processing script and serve the resulting file instead.

```python
# /// script
# requires-python = ">=3.9"
# dependencies = [
#     "playwright",
# ]
# ///

import os
import subprocess
from playwright.sync_api import sync_playwright

input_file = "input.html"
output_file = "output.html"

subprocess.run(["playwright", "install", "chromium-headless-shell"], check=True)

with sync_playwright() as p:
    with p.chromium.launch(headless=True) as browser:
        page = browser.new_page()
        page.goto(
            f"file:///{os.path.abspath(input_file)}",
            wait_until="networkidle",
        )
        with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
            f.write(page.content())
```

## Export to a Python script

Export to a flat Python script in topological order, so the cells adhere to
their dependency graph.

```bash
marimo export script notebook.py -o notebook.script.py
```

!!! warning "Top-level await not supported"

    Exporting to a flat Python script does not support top-level await. If you have
    top-level await in your notebook, you can still execute the notebook as a
    script with `python notebook.py`.

## Export to markdown

Export to markdown notebook in top to bottom order, so the cells are in the
order as they appear in the notebook.

```bash
marimo export md notebook.py -o notebook.md
```

This can be useful to plug into other tools that read markdown, such as [Quarto](https://quarto.org/) or [MyST](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/).

!!! tip "marimo can directly open markdown files as notebooks"
    Learn more with `marimo tutorial markdown-format` at the command line.

You can also convert the markdown back to a marimo notebook:

```bash
marimo convert notebook.md > notebook.py
```

## Export to Jupyter notebook

Export to Jupyter notebook in topological order, so the cells adhere to
their dependency graph.

```bash
marimo export ipynb notebook.py -o notebook.ipynb
```

## Exporting to PDF, slides, or rst

The marimo [Quarto](https://www.github.com/marimo-team/quarto-marimo) plugin
enables exporting to PDF and other formats with Pandoc. See this [publishing](./publishing/quarto.md) for more details.

However, if you export to a Jupyter notebook, you can leverage various other Jupyter ecosystem tools. For PDFs, you will
need to have [Pandoc](https://nbconvert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-pandoc) and [Tex](https://nbconvert.readthedocs.io/en/latest/install.html#installing-tex) installed. The examples below use `uvx`, which you can obtain by [installing `uv`](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/).

```bash
NOTEBOOK=notebook.ipynb

# Convert to PDF using nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to pdf $NOTEBOOK

# Convert to web PDF
uvx --with "nbconvert[webpdf]" --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to webpdf $NOTEBOOK --allow-chromium-download

# Convert to slides
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to slides $NOTEBOOK

# Convert to rst with nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to rst $NOTEBOOK

# Generate PNG/PDF of specific cells using nbconvert
uvx --with nbconvert --with jupyter --from jupyter-core jupyter nbconvert --to pdf --execute --stdout $NOTEBOOK \
  --TemplateExporter.exclude_input=True

# Use nbconvert programmatically for more control
uv run --with nbconvert python -c "
from nbconvert import PDFExporter
import nbformat
nb = nbformat.read('$NOTEBOOK', as_version=4)
pdf_exporter = PDFExporter()
pdf_data, resources = pdf_exporter.from_notebook_node(nb)
with open('notebook.pdf', 'wb') as f:
    f.write(pdf_data)
"
```

You can also use other tools that work with Jupyter notebooks:

- [Quarto](https://quarto.org) - Create beautiful documents, websites, presentations
- [nbgrader](https://nbgrader.readthedocs.io/) - Grade notebook assignments

## Export to WASM-powered HTML

Export your notebook to a self-contained HTML file that runs using WebAssembly:

```bash
# export as readonly, with code locked
marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o output_dir --mode run
# export as an editable notebook
marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o output_dir --mode edit
```

The exported HTML file will run your notebook using WebAssembly, making it completely self-contained and executable in the browser. This means users can interact with your notebook without needing Python or marimo installed.

Options:

- `--mode`: Choose between `run` (read-only) or `edit` (allows editing)
- `--output`: Directory to save the HTML and required assets
- `--show-code/--no-show-code`: Whether to initially show or hide the code in the notebook
- `--watch/--no-watch`: Watch the notebook for changes and automatically export
- `--include-cloudflare`: Write configuration files necessary for deploying to Cloudflare

!!! note "Note"

    The exported file must be served over HTTP to function correctly - it
    cannot be opened directly from the filesystem (`file://`). Your server must
    also serve the assets in the `assets` directory, next to the HTML file. For
    a simpler publishing experience, publish to [GitHub
    Pages](publishing/github_pages.md), [Cloudflare](publishing/cloudflare.md) or use the [online
    playground](publishing/playground.md).

??? note "Deploying to Cloudflare"

    You can include `--include-cloudflare` for deploying to Cloudflare. For example:

    ```
    marimo export html-wasm notebook.py -o my_app/dist --include-cloudflare
    ```

    To run locally, run:

    ```
    npx wrangler dev
    ```

    To deploy to Cloudflare, run:

    ```
    npx wrangler deploy
    ```

### Testing the export

You can test the export by running the following command in the directory containing your notebook:

```bash
cd path/to/output_dir
python -m http.server
```

### Including data files

See the docs for [mo.notebook_location][marimo.notebook_location] to learn how
to include data files in exported WASM HTML notebooks.

### Publishing to GitHub Pages

After exporting your notebook to WASM HTML, you can publish it to
[GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) for free. See our [guide on
GitHub Pages](publishing/github_pages.md) to learn more.

### Exporting multiple notebooks

In order to export multiple notebooks under the same folder, you can use the following snippet:

```bash
files=("batch_and_form.py" "data_explorer.py")

for file in "${files[@]}"; do
  without_extension="${file%.*}"
  marimo export html-wasm "$file" -o site/"$without_extension".html --mode run
done
```

Optionally, you can create an `index.html` file in the public directory:

```bash
echo "<html><body><ul>" > site/index.html
for file in "${files[@]}"; do
  without_extension="${file%.*}"
  echo "<li><a href=\"$without_extension.html\">$without_extension</a></li>" >> site/index.html
done
echo "</ul></body></html>" >> site/index.html
```

## 🏝️ Embed marimo outputs in HTML using Islands

!!! note "Preview"

    Islands are an early feature. While the API likely won't change, there are some improvements we'd like to make before we consider them stable.
    Please let us know on [GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/issues) if you run into any issues or have any feedback!

marimo islands are a way to embed marimo outputs and/or python code in your HTML that will become interactive when the page is loaded. This is useful for creating interactive blog posts, tutorials, and educational materials, all powered by marimo's reactive runtime.

Check out an [example island-powered document](./island_example.md).

### Generating islands

Use `MarimoIslandGenerator` to generate HTML for islands

!!! example
    /// tab | From code blocks

    ```python
    import asyncio
    import sys
    from marimo import MarimoIslandGenerator

    if sys.platform == 'win32':
        asyncio.set_event_loop_policy(asyncio.WindowsSelectorEventLoopPolicy())

    async def main():
        generator = MarimoIslandGenerator()
        block1 = generator.add_code("import marimo as mo")
        block2 = generator.add_code("mo.md('Hello, islands!')")

        # Build the app
        app = await generator.build()

        # Render the app
        output = f"""
        <html>
            <head>
                {generator.render_head()}
            </head>
            <body>
                {block1.render(display_output=False)}
                {block2.render()}
            </body>
        </html>
        """
        print(output)
        # Save the HTML to a file
        output_file = "output.html"
        with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
            f.write(output)

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        asyncio.run(main())
    ```

    ///

    /// tab | From notebook files

    ```python
    from marimo import MarimoIslandGenerator

    # Create the generator from file
    generator = MarimoIslandGenerator.from_file("./<notebook-name>.py", display_code=False)

    # Generate and print the HTML without building
    # This will still work for basic rendering, though without running the cells
    html = generator.render_html(include_init_island=False)
    print(html)
    # Save the HTML to a file
    output_file = "output.html"
    with open(output_file, "w", encoding="utf-8") as f:
        f.write(html)
    ```

    ///

Any relevant `.html` that gets generated can be run through the [`development.md`](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/frontend/islands/development.md) file instructions.

### Islands in action

!!! warning "Advanced topic!"

    Islands are an advanced concept that is meant to be a building block for creating integrations with existing tools such as static site generators or documentation tools.

In order to use marimo islands, you need to import the necessary JS/CSS headers in your HTML file, and use our custom HTML tags to define the islands.

```html
<head>
  <!-- marimo js/ccs --
  <script type="module" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@marimo-team/islands@<version>/dist/main.js"></script>
  <link
    href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@marimo-team/islands@<version>/dist/style.css"
    rel="stylesheet"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
  />
  <!-- fonts -->
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com" />
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
  <link
    href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Fira+Mono:wght@400;500;700&amp;family=Lora&amp;family=PT+Sans:wght@400;700&amp;display=swap"
    rel="stylesheet"
  />
  <link
    rel="stylesheet"
    href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/katex@0.16.10/dist/katex.min.css"
    integrity="sha384-wcIxkf4k558AjM3Yz3BBFQUbk/zgIYC2R0QpeeYb+TwlBVMrlgLqwRjRtGZiK7ww"
    crossorigin="anonymous"
  />
</head>

<body>
  <marimo-island data-app-id="main" data-cell-id="MJUe" data-reactive="true">
    <marimo-cell-output>
      <span class="markdown">
        <span class="paragraph">Hello, islands!</span>
      </span>
    </marimo-cell-output>
    <marimo-cell-code hidden>mo.md('Hello islands 🏝️!')</marimo-cell-code>
  </marimo-island>
</body>
```

::: marimo.MarimoIslandGenerator
