docs/guides/scripts.md, before:

# Run as a script

You can run marimo notebooks as scripts at the command line, just like
any other Python script. For example,

```bash
python my_marimo_notebook.py
```

Running a notebook as a script is useful when your notebook has side-effects,
like writing to disk. Print statements and other console outputs will show
up in your terminal.


!!! note "Producing notebook outputs"

    To run as a script while also producing HTML of the notebook outputs, use

    ```bash
    marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html
    ```

    Separate CLI args for your notebook with two dashes:

    ```bash
    marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html -- -arg value
    ```

## Command-line arguments

When run as a script, you can access your notebook's command-line arguments
through `sys.argv`, just like any other Python program. This also
means you can declare your notebook's command-line arguments using Python
libraries like [`argparse`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html)
and [`simple-parsing`](https://github.com/lebrice/SimpleParsing).

These examples shows how to conditionally assign values to variables based on
command-line arguments when running as a script, and use default values when
running as a notebook.

### argparse

/// marimo-embed-file
    filepath: examples/running_as_a_script/with_argparse.py
///

### simpler-parsing

/// marimo-embed-file
    filepath: examples/running_as_a_script/with_simple_parsing.py
///


### Parsing extra command-line arguments passed to marimo edit

You can also parametrize `marimo edit` and `marimo run` sessions with command-line
arguments; however, tools like argparse don't work out of the box, since they are
expecting the first argument to be the notebook executable. For these cases,
see the [docs page on CLI args](../api/cli_args.md) to learn more.

Commit message:

feat: argparse support when running as a notebook (#4306)
This change makes the kernel set `sys.argv` to the CLI extra arguments,
i.e. the arguments after the filename, in edit and run sessions and when
exporting. This matches semantics when running as a script.

This makes it possible to write an argparse or simple-parsing
specification that works when:

1.  editing or running a notebook as an app
2. running as a script
3. exporting to HTML / IPYNB

Without this change, argparse worked for 2 but not for 1 and 3.

For example, for

```
marimo edit notebook.py -- foo bar -baz 42
```
`sys.argv` would be set to

```
["notebook.py", "foo", "bar", "-baz", "42"]
```

With this change, `mo.cli_args()` is not really needed anymore, but we
can keep it around (it has some [public
usage](https://github.com/search?q=mo.cli_args&type=code)).

---------

Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/guides/scripts.md, after:

# Run as a script

You can run marimo notebooks as scripts at the command line, just like
any other Python script. For example,

```bash
python my_marimo_notebook.py
```

Running a notebook as a script is useful when your notebook has side-effects,
like writing to disk. Print statements and other console outputs will show
up in your terminal.


!!! note "Saving notebook outputs"

    To run as a script while also saving HTML of the notebook outputs, use

    ```bash
    marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html
    ```

    You can also pass command-line arguments to your notebook during export.
    Separate these args from the command with two dashes:

    ```bash
    marimo export html notebook.py -o notebook.html -- -arg value
    ```

    Exporting to other formats, such as ipynb, is also possible:

    ```bash
    marimo export ipynb notebook.py -o notebook.ipynb -- -arg value
    ```

## Command-line arguments

When run as a script, you can access your notebook's command-line arguments
through `sys.argv`, just like any other Python program. This also
means you can declare your notebook's command-line arguments using Python
libraries like [`argparse`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html)
and [`simple-parsing`](https://github.com/lebrice/SimpleParsing).

These examples shows how to conditionally assign values to variables based on
command-line arguments when running as a script, and use default values when
running as a notebook.

### argparse

/// marimo-embed-file
    filepath: examples/running_as_a_script/with_argparse.py
///

### simple-parsing

/// marimo-embed-file
    filepath: examples/running_as_a_script/with_simple_parsing.py
///
