docs/getting_started/installation.md, before:

# Installation

Before installing marimo, we recommend creating and activating a Python
[virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments).

??? note "Setting up a virtual environment"

    Python uses virtual environments to minimize conflicts among packages.
    Here's a quickstart for `pip` users. If you use `conda`, please use a [`conda`
    environment](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-with-commands)
    instead.

    Run the following in the terminal:

    - create an environment with `python -m venv marimo-env`
    - activate the environment:
      - macOS/Unix: `source marimo-env/bin/activate`
      - Windows: `marimo-env\Scripts\activate`

    _Make sure the environment is activated before installing marimo and when
    using marimo._ Install other packages you may need, such as numpy, pandas, matplotlib,
    and altair, in this environment. When you're done, deactivate the environment
    with `deactivate` in the terminal.

    Learn more from the [official Python tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments).

/// admonition | Using uv?
    type: tip

[uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) is a next-generation Python package
installer and manager that is 10-100x faster than pip, and also makes it easy
to install Python and manage projects. With `uv`, creating a virtual
environment is as easy as `uv venv`.
///

## Install with minimal dependencies

To install marimo, run the following in a terminal:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install marimo
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add marimo
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo
```

///

To check if the install worked, run

```bash
marimo tutorial intro
```

A tutorial notebook should open in your browser.

/// admonition | Installation issues?
    type: note

Having installation issues? Reach out to us [at GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/issues) or [on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=docs).
///

## Install with recommended dependencies

marimo is lightweight, with few dependencies, to maximize compatibility with
your own environments.

To unlock additional features in the marimo editor, including SQL cells,
AI completion, server-side plotting of dataframe columns, and more, we
suggest installing `marimo[recommended]`:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo "duckdb>=1.0.0" "altair>=5.4.0" pyarrow "polars>=1.9.0" "sqlglot>=23.4" "openai>=1.55.3" "ruff" "nbformat>=5.7.0" "vegafusion>=2.0.0" "vl-convert-python>=1.0.0"
```

///

Installing marimo in this way installs the following additional dependencies and unlocks the following features:

| Dependency                 | Feature                          |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| duckdb>=1.0.0              | SQL cells                        |
| altair>=5.4.0              | Plotting in datasource viewer   |
| polars[pyarrow]>=1.9.0     | SQL output back in Python       |
| sqlglot>=23.4              | SQL cells parsing               |
| openai>=1.55.3             | AI features                     |
| ruff                       | Formatting                      |
| nbformat>=5.7.0            | Export as IPYNB                 |
| vegafusion>=2.0.0          | Performant charting             |
| vl-convert-python>=1.0.0   | Required by vegafusion          |

Commit message:

Documentation fix - installation with uv (#5077)
## 📝 Summary

<!--
Provide a concise summary of what this pull request is addressing.

If this PR fixes any issues, list them here by number (e.g., Fixes
#123).
-->

## 🔍 Description of Changes

Minor doc update on `/getting_started/installation/` page

When installing marimo with uv, we should check if it was installed
properly with `uv run marimo tutorial intro` (previously just `marimo
tutorial intro`)

Related discussion: https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/issues/5070

<!--
Detail the specific changes made in this pull request. Explain the
problem addressed and how it was resolved. If applicable, provide before
and after comparisons, screenshots, or any relevant details to help
reviewers understand the changes easily.
-->

## 📋 Checklist

- [x] I have read the [contributor
guidelines](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).
- [ ] For large changes, or changes that affect the public API: this
change was discussed or approved through an issue, on
[Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=pr), or the community
[discussions](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/discussions) (Please
provide a link if applicable).
- [ ] I have added tests for the changes made.
- [x] I have run the code and verified that it works as expected.

## 📜 Reviewers

<!--
Tag potential reviewers from the community or maintainers who might be
interested in reviewing this pull request.

Your PR will be reviewed more quickly if you can figure out the right
person to tag with @ -->

@akshayka OR @mscolnick

docs/getting_started/installation.md, after:

# Installation

Before installing marimo, we recommend creating and activating a Python
[virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments).

??? note "Setting up a virtual environment"

    Python uses virtual environments to minimize conflicts among packages.
    Here's a quickstart for `pip` users. If you use `conda`, please use a [`conda`
    environment](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#creating-an-environment-with-commands)
    instead.

    Run the following in the terminal:

    - create an environment with `python -m venv marimo-env`
    - activate the environment:
      - macOS/Unix: `source marimo-env/bin/activate`
      - Windows: `marimo-env\Scripts\activate`

    _Make sure the environment is activated before installing marimo and when
    using marimo._ Install other packages you may need, such as numpy, pandas, matplotlib,
    and altair, in this environment. When you're done, deactivate the environment
    with `deactivate` in the terminal.

    Learn more from the [official Python tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html#creating-virtual-environments).

/// admonition | Using uv?
    type: tip

[uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) is a next-generation Python package
installer and manager that is 10-100x faster than pip, and also makes it easy
to install Python and manage projects. With `uv`, creating a virtual
environment is as easy as `uv venv`.
///

## Install with minimal dependencies

To install marimo, run the following in a terminal:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install marimo
```

To check if the install worked, run

```bash
marimo tutorial intro
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add marimo
```

To check if the install worked, run

```bash
uv run marimo tutorial intro
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo
```

To check if the install worked, run

```bash
marimo tutorial intro
```

///

A tutorial notebook should open in your browser.

/// admonition | Installation issues?
    type: note

Having installation issues? Reach out to us [at GitHub](https://github.com/marimo-team/marimo/issues) or [on Discord](https://marimo.io/discord?ref=docs).
///

## Install with recommended dependencies

marimo is lightweight, with few dependencies, to maximize compatibility with
your own environments.

To unlock additional features in the marimo editor, including SQL cells,
AI completion, server-side plotting of dataframe columns, and more, we
suggest installing `marimo[recommended]`:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo "duckdb>=1.0.0" "altair>=5.4.0" pyarrow "polars>=1.9.0" "sqlglot>=23.4" "openai>=1.55.3" "ruff" "nbformat>=5.7.0" "vegafusion>=2.0.0" "vl-convert-python>=1.0.0"
```

///

Installing marimo in this way installs the following additional dependencies and unlocks the following features:

| Dependency                 | Feature                          |
|----------------------------|----------------------------------|
| duckdb>=1.0.0              | SQL cells                        |
| altair>=5.4.0              | Plotting in datasource viewer   |
| polars[pyarrow]>=1.9.0     | SQL output back in Python       |
| sqlglot>=23.4              | SQL cells parsing               |
| openai>=1.55.3             | AI features                     |
| ruff                       | Formatting                      |
| nbformat>=5.7.0            | Export as IPYNB                 |
| vegafusion>=2.0.0          | Performant charting             |
| vl-convert-python>=1.0.0   | Required by vegafusion          |
