docs/getting_started/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart

Installing marimo gets you the `marimo` command-line interface (CLI), the entry
point to all things marimo.

## Run tutorials

`marimo tutorial intro` opens the intro tutorial. List all tutorials with

```bash
marimo tutorial --help
```

## Edit notebooks

Create and edit notebooks with `marimo edit`.

- launch the notebook server to create new notebooks,
  and start or stop existing ones:

```bash
marimo edit
```

- create or edit a single notebook with

```bash
marimo edit your_notebook.py
```

(If `your_notebook.py` doesn't exist, marimo will create a blank notebook
named `your_notebook.py`.)

## Deploy as apps

Use `marimo run` to [serve your notebook as an app](../guides/apps.md), with
Python code hidden and uneditable.

```bash
marimo run your_notebook.py
```

## Run as scripts

Run your notebook as a script with

```python
python your_notebook.py
```

You can also [pass CLI args](../guides/scripts.md) to your notebook.

## Convert from Jupyter to marimo

Automatically convert Jupyter notebooks to marimo notebooks with `marimo convert`:

```bash
marimo convert your_notebook.ipynb -o your_notebook.py
```

Then open the notebook with `marimo edit your_notebook.py`

!!! tip "Disable autorun on startup"
    marimo automatically runs notebooks when they are opened. If this
    is a problem for you (not all Jupyter notebooks are designed to be run on
    startup), you can disable autorun on startup via [user configuration](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md).

    1. Type `marimo config show` to get the location of your config file.
    2. If no config file exists, create it at `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/marimo/marimo.toml`.
    3. Update your config to include the following:

    ```toml title="marimo.toml"
    [runtime]
    auto_instantiate = false
    ```

## Export marimo notebooks to other file formats

Use

```bash
marimo export
```

to [export marimo notebooks](../guides/exporting.md) to other file formats,
including HTML, IPYNB, and markdown.

## Install optional dependencies for more features

Some features require additional dependencies, which are not installed by default. This includes:

- [SQL cells](../guides/working_with_data/sql.md)
- Charts in the datasource viewer
- [AI features](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md)
- Format on save

To install the optional dependencies, run:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo duckdb altair polars openai ruff
```

///

This will install: `duckdb`, `altair`, `polars`, `openai`, and `ruff`.

## Enable GitHub Copilot and AI Assistant

The marimo editor natively supports [GitHub Copilot](https://copilot.github.com/),
an AI pair programmer, similar to VS Code.

_Get started with Copilot_:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download).
2. Enable Copilot via the settings menu in the marimo editor.

_Note_: Copilot is not yet available in our conda distribution; please install
marimo from `PyPI` if you need Copilot.

marimo also comes with support for [other copilots](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md#custom-copilots),
and a built-in [AI assistant](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md) that helps you write code.

## Coming from VS Code?

The best way to use marimo is through the CLI. However, if you prefer VS Code
over terminal, try our [VS Code
extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marimo-team.vscode-marimo).
Use this extension to edit and run notebooks directly from VS Code, and to list
all marimo notebooks in your current directory.

<div align="center">
<figure>
<img src="/_static/vscode-marimo.png" alt="VS Code extension for marimo"/>
</figure> </div>

Commit message:

docs: readings and videos
Add a readings and videos tab on our docs that links to key YouTube
videos and readings about marimo.

Also add mentions of the marimo concepts playlist to our readme, docs
homepage, and quickstart.

docs/getting_started/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart

Installing marimo gets you the `marimo` command-line interface (CLI), the entry
point to all things marimo.

## Run tutorials

`marimo tutorial intro` opens the intro tutorial. List all tutorials with

```bash
marimo tutorial --help
```

!!! tip "See marimo in action on YouTube"

    The [marimo concepts playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3N6lInzq5MI&list=PLNJXGo8e1XT9jP7gPbRdm1XwloZVFvLEq) on our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@marimo-team) gives an overview of many features.

## Edit notebooks

Create and edit notebooks with `marimo edit`.

- launch the notebook server to create new notebooks,
  and start or stop existing ones:

```bash
marimo edit
```

- create or edit a single notebook with

```bash
marimo edit your_notebook.py
```

(If `your_notebook.py` doesn't exist, marimo will create a blank notebook
named `your_notebook.py`.)

## Deploy as apps

Use `marimo run` to [serve your notebook as an app](../guides/apps.md), with
Python code hidden and uneditable.

```bash
marimo run your_notebook.py
```

## Run as scripts

Run your notebook as a script with

```python
python your_notebook.py
```

You can also [pass CLI args](../guides/scripts.md) to your notebook.

## Convert from Jupyter to marimo

Automatically convert Jupyter notebooks to marimo notebooks with `marimo convert`:

```bash
marimo convert your_notebook.ipynb -o your_notebook.py
```

Then open the notebook with `marimo edit your_notebook.py`

!!! tip "Disable autorun on startup"
    marimo automatically runs notebooks when they are opened. If this
    is a problem for you (not all Jupyter notebooks are designed to be run on
    startup), you can disable autorun on startup via [user configuration](../guides/configuration/runtime_configuration.md).

    1. Type `marimo config show` to get the location of your config file.
    2. If no config file exists, create it at `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/marimo/marimo.toml`.
    3. Update your config to include the following:

    ```toml title="marimo.toml"
    [runtime]
    auto_instantiate = false
    ```

## Export marimo notebooks to other file formats

Use

```bash
marimo export
```

to [export marimo notebooks](../guides/exporting.md) to other file formats,
including HTML, IPYNB, and markdown.

## Install optional dependencies for more features

Some features require additional dependencies, which are not installed by default. This includes:

- [SQL cells](../guides/working_with_data/sql.md)
- Charts in the datasource viewer
- [AI features](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md)
- Format on save

To install the optional dependencies, run:

/// tab | install with pip

```bash
pip install "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with uv

```bash
uv add "marimo[recommended]"
```

///

/// tab | install with conda

```bash
conda install -c conda-forge marimo duckdb altair polars openai ruff
```

///

This will install: `duckdb`, `altair`, `polars`, `openai`, and `ruff`.

## Enable GitHub Copilot and AI Assistant

The marimo editor natively supports [GitHub Copilot](https://copilot.github.com/),
an AI pair programmer, similar to VS Code.

_Get started with Copilot_:

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download).
2. Enable Copilot via the settings menu in the marimo editor.

_Note_: Copilot is not yet available in our conda distribution; please install
marimo from `PyPI` if you need Copilot.

marimo also comes with support for [other copilots](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md#custom-copilots),
and a built-in [AI assistant](../guides/editor_features/ai_completion.md) that helps you write code.

## Coming from VS Code?

The best way to use marimo is through the CLI. However, if you prefer VS Code
over terminal, try our [VS Code
extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=marimo-team.vscode-marimo).
Use this extension to edit and run notebooks directly from VS Code, and to list
all marimo notebooks in your current directory.

<div align="center">
<figure>
<img src="/_static/vscode-marimo.png" alt="VS Code extension for marimo"/>
</figure> </div>
