docs/api/cli_args.md, before:

# Command Line Arguments

Use `mo.cli_args` to access command-line arguments passed to the notebook. This
allows you to pass arguments to the notebook that are not controllable by the
user. The arguments will be parsed from the command line when running the
notebook as an application with `marimo run` or `marimo edit`; they will also
be parsed from the command line when running as a script.

Some examples passing command-line arguments to the notebook when running
as a script:

```bash
python notebook.py -- --arg1 value1 --arg2 value2
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 'value1', 'arg2': 'value2'}

python notebook.py -- --arg1=10 --arg2=true --arg3
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 10, 'arg2': True, 'arg3': ''}

python notebook.py -- --arg1 10.5 --arg2 hello --arg2 world
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 10.5, 'arg2': ['hello', 'world']}
```

In each example, `python` can be replaced as `marimo run` (for running as
an app) or `marimo edit` (for running as a notebook).

::: marimo.cli_args

!!! note "Query Parameters"
    You can also access query parameters passed to the notebook using
    `mo.query_params`. This allows you to pass arguments to the notebook that can be controlled by the user.

Commit message:

feat: argparse support when running as a notebook (#4306)
This change makes the kernel set `sys.argv` to the CLI extra arguments,
i.e. the arguments after the filename, in edit and run sessions and when
exporting. This matches semantics when running as a script.

This makes it possible to write an argparse or simple-parsing
specification that works when:

1.  editing or running a notebook as an app
2. running as a script
3. exporting to HTML / IPYNB

Without this change, argparse worked for 2 but not for 1 and 3.

For example, for

```
marimo edit notebook.py -- foo bar -baz 42
```
`sys.argv` would be set to

```
["notebook.py", "foo", "bar", "-baz", "42"]
```

With this change, `mo.cli_args()` is not really needed anymore, but we
can keep it around (it has some [public
usage](https://github.com/search?q=mo.cli_args&type=code)).

---------

Co-authored-by: pre-commit-ci[bot] <66853113+pre-commit-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/api/cli_args.md, after:

# Command Line Arguments

When running as a script with `python notebook.py`, command-line arguments
are available to your program in `sys.argv`, just like any other Python
program. This means you can use
[`argparse`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html),
[`simple-parsing`](https://github.com/lebrice/SimpleParsing), and other tools
for specifying and parsing arguments.

You can also use tools like `argparse` when running as a notebook (`marimo
edit` or `marimo run`) or exporting to HTML, IPYNB or another format (`marimo
export`). In these cases, `sys.argv` is set to the notebook filename followed by any args
following the `--` separator.

For example, for

```bash
marimo edit notebook.py -- --lr 1e-4 --epochs 15
```

sets `sys.argv` to `["notebook.py", "--lr", "1e-4", "--epochs", "15"]`.

For usage examples, see the guide on [running as a script](../guides/scripts.md).

## Utility function for parsing arguments

marimo provides a utility function called `mo.cli_args()` for parsing arguments
from strings into primitive data types (`int`, `bool`, `float`, `str`).
However, unlike `argparse` and `simple-parsing`, this function does not let you
declare your program's arguments, nor does it generate help text. **For these
reasons, we recommend using `argparse` or `simple-parsing` instead.**

```bash
python notebook.py -- --arg1 value1 --arg2 value2
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 'value1', 'arg2': 'value2'}

python notebook.py -- --arg1=10 --arg2=true --arg3
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 10, 'arg2': True, 'arg3': ''}

python notebook.py -- --arg1 10.5 --arg2 hello --arg2 world
# mo.cli_args() == {'arg1': 10.5, 'arg2': ['hello', 'world']}
```

::: marimo.cli_args

!!! note "Query Parameters"
    You can also access query parameters passed to the notebook using
    `mo.query_params`. This allows you to pass arguments to the notebook that can be controlled by the user.
